from https://www.gartner.com/fast-answer/tech/e55c08f1-9b85-3f46-aeba-fac13e6110b3?ref=panel-in-disguise&refval=538293019#

Gartner Fast Answer 
What should I know about OpenTelemetry?

Definition
OpenTelemetry (OTel) is a collection of specifications, tools, APIs and software development kits (SDKs) that describe and support the implementation of an open-source instrumentation and observability framework for software. The initiative, curated by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), defines multiple flavors of telemetry -- traces, metrics, logs and, soon, performance profiles. OTel is widely supported by commercial and open-source observability solutions.
Market Penetration :
Maturity :
Benefit Rating :
20% to 50%
Early mainstream
High
Not what you're looking for? Check out Related Technologies.
Business Impact
OTel:

Enables deeper visibility into application health and performance across application and service provider boundaries.
Facilitates the use of multiple observability vendors or migration between vendors.
Benefits product owners, site reliability engineers (SREs) and platform operators by allowing "instrument once, analyze anywhere."
Standardizes encoding and delivery of telemetry between sources and targets, thus improving reliability and scalability as more vendors become OpenTelemetry Protocol-compliant.
Vendors
Amazon Web ServicesChronosphereCisco SystemsDynatraceElasticGrafana LabsHoneycombNew Relic
Importance
OTel introduces a portable way to instrument, generate, collect and export telemetry data about application health and performance. It has changed the way observability solutions are assessed, deployed and used. OTel has garnered widespread support and adoption and is currently second in velocity only to Kubernetes within the CNCF ecosystem. Many software vendors, cloud providers and observability tools have released or announced support for OTel.
Trends
Uniformity of instrumentation: Distributed traces provide a rich, sequenced perspective to request handling in distributed software but are not always enough to fully identify and resolve anomalies. By including support for correlating metrics and logs with traces, OTel incorporates a more complete dataset for application observability use cases.

Software architecture: Microservices, containers and serverless functions are powerful constructs that serve as the basis for modern applications. Loose coupling facilitates the build, test and release of independent components.

Cost of observability solutions: Many organizations have struggled with the cost of monitoring all of their applications with commercial observability offerings and either reduce the monitoring footprint or use a low-cost, secondary solution. OTel facilitates the latter by allowing the same telemetry to be flexibly routed to different solutions.

Site reliability engineering: In many organizations, SREs are responsible for health and performance management and are the most likely to demand insights from OTel. Interest in building an SRE role and adopting SRE practices is increasing.

Project stability: The OTel project has applied to become a "graduated" project, in CNCF parlance, which offers a level of assurance that stability and maturity are sufficient for widespread production use.


Recommendations
Choose vendors that are committed to OTel when selecting monitoring tools and observability platforms.
Embrace OTel for distributed tracing today when building trace instrumentation into your custom application software.
Instrument your cloud-native applications using OTel SDKs as they are available for your languages and frameworks. Zero-code instrumentation mechanisms, many based on extended Berkeley packet filter (eBPF), are also becoming more commonly available.
Augment existing observability solutions with OTel for hybrid workloads.
Familiarize yourself with OTel by experimenting with the OpenTelemetry Demo, a complete, services-based sample application with problem-solving scenarios.